---
layout: post
title: Fixmyjs roadmap to 2.0
date: '2015-02-04'
tags:
- fixmyjs
- javascript
- tooling
---

# Fixmyjs roadmap to 2.0

Soon enough fixmyjs 2.0 will land on master and npm and with it we'll get quite a few things.

* Better documentation.
* ES6 support.
* More options.
* Code style correction from esformatter.

This post is a guide on what's changing in 2.0 and what's left to get there.

## Breaking changes

This part is important. I attempted to avoid breaking changes but some tough decisions needed to happen.

### Legacy mode is no more.

This is definitely the biggest change. The reason for this is that it is not actively maintained. It'll continue to be available on the 1.0 version.

Originally, fixmyjs used jshint to determine which errors it needed to fix. It would then use jshint's reporting of line number and character positioning to perform a series of transformations on the source code string. These transformations are a set of regular expressions which aren't easy to write or maintain. This also doesn't have full coverage, for example, rewriting all your variables to use one-var style was impossible.

At some point this mode became "legacy" mode, yes the name is terrible. Fixmyjs adapted a new mode which did transformations on the AST and then regenerated the code again.

The problem was that this was a destructive operation since all the code had to be rewritten and this change turned out to be a mistake.

I still believe AST is the right path since it allows fixmyjs the freedom of better transformations. The real magic comes from a library called [recast](https://github.com/benjamn/recast).

Recast generates only the parts of AST that have changed, thus making any destructions manageable. Couple recast along with esformatter and you have a tool that fixes your code and then beautifies it according to a set style guide. This is the future of fixmyjs and why legacy is no more.

### You now put your config inside package.json.

The next large change is where you put your config.

Back when jshint powered fixmyjs all the configurations were pulled from a `.jshintrc` file. Since we don't rely on jshint any more it doesn't make sense to continue to enforce a jshintrc file. This also makes it easier for fixmyjs to introduce new option names for fixing code.

The config object now lives in your `package.json`. This is great because you probably have a package.json file already in your tree.

You can check out an [example config in the fixmyjs
project](https://github.com/jshint/fixmyjs/blob/v2.0/package.json#L62). Fixmyjs will use those set of options when transforming your files unless otherwise specified/overwritten.

### All rules have are now truthy

This one is an artifact from jshint which in turn is an artifact from jslint. Some rules you enable via the flag `true`, others via `false`. This is confusing and difficult to remember. All rules are now enabled when true.

This obviously is an issue for rules such as `snakecase` and `camelcase` but if you have both enabled fixmyjs will throw an Error.

### Option `es3`

The option has changed to enable `no-comma-dangle` as well as new option `parseIntRadix`.

The `es3` option used to add the radix parameter to `parseInt`. Now it removes trailing commas as well. In the future it'll be a catch-all for all other es3 type transformations.

## So where do we go from here?

Well there's quite a bit of testing I'd still like to do and some more docs and posts I intend to write about how to use fixmyjs.

Until then, feel free to sound off [@goatslacker](https://twitter.com/goatslacker) with any feature requests, comments, or concerns. Or open up a [ticket](https://github.com/jshint/fixmyjs/issues) on github.
